mod_pubsub
==========

Author: Arjan Scherpenisse

Module for Zotonic (http://zotonic.com/) which implements Resource
Sharing over XMPP:

  http://miraclethings.nl/page/644/resource-sharing-using-publish-subscribe

This module, an Erlang gen_server, connects as a client to an XMPP
server. It maintains this connection all the time as long as Zotonic
is running. mod_pubsub implements both the publishing as well as the
subscribing side of the resource sharing mechanism.

Setting up PubSub
-----------------

Setting up mod_pubsub is quite easy: since it is implemented as an
XMPP client, the only thing you need is a dedicated XMPP account at a
server which is configured with pubsub support.

Since the XMPP server needs publish/subscribe to be enabled, it's the
easiest to run your own server. Servers known to work are ejabberd (at
least version 2.0.1) and openfire. Make sure that you do enable pubsub
support in the server, with support for instant node creation and with
the access controls set so that anyone may create pubsub nodes. With
ejabberd, this is the default setting.

Configuration keys in Zotonic are the following:

* mod_pubsub.jid: the jid of your dedicated account.

* mod_pubsub.password: its password.

* mod_pubsub.pubsub_domain: the pubsub domain: this is the JID of the
  pubsub service: for instance, pubsub.yourserver.com.

To add these config values, go to "config" in the admin, then click
"make a new config setting", and then type "mod_pubsub" as the module,
"jid" as the key, and your JID as the value; and click "add
key". Repeat for the other config values. Now you're ready to enable
the publish/subscribe module.  Please remember: Only activate the
publish/subscribe module after setting the config keys!

Once you've activated the module (click "activate" next to the
"Publish/Subscribe" line in the Modules overview), you might not
notice anything: pubsub should now "just work" :) If you see an error
popup in the admin, there might be something wrong with your
credentials (wrong JID or password).

In the navigation bar at the left side of the screen you now see a
"publish/subscribe" item. Clicking this brings you to the page where
you see an overview of all the subscriptions this site has. The button
at the top lets you subscribe to a page on another site. Try it! Of
course, the site at the other end should support resource sharing as
well: you can confirm this by viewing the source of a page at that
site, verifying that the link rel=xmpp.feed meta tag is present. You
can for instance try subscribing to the URL of this article.

A word of warning
-----------------

A note: the resource sharing is still in development in Zotonic: the
"happy path" works pretty good, but error reporting is still lacking:
if something goes wrong while publishing or subscribing, you probably
wouldn't notice it. It will fail silently without any notification in
the Zotonic admin. If you suspect that this is happening: try starting
Zotonic in debug mode to see all output. If you notice crashes when
you save a page, you can at least inspect the output.
